FEMALE VOICE:
The world is changed.
/ feel it in the water.
/ feel it in the earth.
/ smell it in the air.
Much that once was...
...is lost.
For none now live who remember it.
It began with the forging
of the Great Rings.
Three were given to the Elves:
Immortal, wisest and fairest
of all beings.
Seven to the Dwarf-lords:
Great miners and craftsmen
of the mountain halls.
And nine...
...nine rings were gifted
to the race of Men...
...who, above all else, desire power.
For within these rings was bound the
strength and will to govern each race.
But they were all of them deceived.
For another ring was made.
In the land of Mordor,
in the fires of Mount Doom...
...the Dark Lord Sauron forged
in secret a Master Ring...
...to control all others.
And into this Ring he poured
his cruelty, his malice...
...and his will to dominate all life.
One Ring to rule them all.
One by one...
...the Free Lands of Middle-earth
fell to the power of the Ring.
But there were some who resisted.
A Last Alliance of Men and Elves
marched against the armies of Mordor.
And on the slopes of Mount Doom, they
fought for Middle-earth's freedom.
[SPEAKS IN ELVISH]
Victory was near.
But the power of the Ring...
...could not be undone.
It was in this moment...
...when all hope had faded...
...that Isildur, son of the king,
took up his father's sword.
Sauron, the enemy of the Free Peoples
of Middle-earth, was defeated.
The Ring passed to Isildur...
...who had this one chance
to destroy evil forever.
But the hearts of Men...
...are easily corrupted.
And the Ring of Power
has a will of its own.
It betrayed Isildur to his death.
And some things
that should not have been forgotten...
...were lost.
History became legend...
...legend became myth.
And for 2500 years...
...the Ring passed
out of all knowledge.
Until, when chance came...
...it ensnared a new bearer.
GOLLUM:
My precious.
FEMALE VOICE:
The Ring came to the creature Gollum...
...who took it deep
into the Misty Mountains.
And there it consumed him.
GOLLUM:
It came to me.
My own. My love. My own.
My precious.
FEMALE VOICE: The Ring
brought to Gollum unnatural long life.
For 500 years it poisoned his mind.
And in the gloom of Gollurn's cave,
it waited.
Darkness crept back into
the forests of the world.
Rumor grew of a shadow in the East...
...whispers of a nameless fear.
And the Ring of Power perceived...
...its time had now come.
It abandoned Gollum.
But something happened then
the Ring did not intend.
It was picked up by the most unlikely
creature imaginable.
BILBO:
What's this?
FEMALE VOICE:
A Hobbit.
Bilbo Baggins of the Shire.
A ring.
GOLLUM:
Lost!
My precious is lost!
FEMALE VOICE:
For the time will soon come...
...when Hobbits will shape
the fortunes of all.